Help/prop_tgt/C_STANDARD.rst, before:

C_STANDARD
----------

The C standard whose features are requested to build this target.

This property specifies the C standard whose features are requested
to build this target.  For some compilers, this results in adding a
flag such as ``-std=gnu11`` to the compile line.

Supported values are ``90``, ``99`` and ``11``.

If the value requested does not result in a compile flag being added for
the compiler in use, a previous standard flag will be added instead.  This
means that using:

.. code-block:: cmake

  set_property(TARGET tgt PROPERTY C_STANDARD 11)

with a compiler which does not support ``-std=gnu11`` or an equivalent
flag will not result in an error or warning, but will instead add the
``-std=gnu99`` or ``-std=gnu90`` flag if supported.  This "decay" behavior may
be controlled with the :prop_tgt:`C_STANDARD_REQUIRED` target property.

See the :manual:`cmake-compile-features(7)` manual for information on
compile features.

This property is initialized by the value of
the :variable:`CMAKE_C_STANDARD` variable if it is set when a target
is created.

Commit message:

Help: Document <LANG>_STANDARD having no effect for MSVC

Help/prop_tgt/C_STANDARD.rst, after:

C_STANDARD
----------

The C standard whose features are requested to build this target.

This property specifies the C standard whose features are requested
to build this target.  For some compilers, this results in adding a
flag such as ``-std=gnu11`` to the compile line.  For compilers that
have no notion of a standard level, such as MSVC, this has no effect.

Supported values are ``90``, ``99`` and ``11``.

If the value requested does not result in a compile flag being added for
the compiler in use, a previous standard flag will be added instead.  This
means that using:

.. code-block:: cmake

  set_property(TARGET tgt PROPERTY C_STANDARD 11)

with a compiler which does not support ``-std=gnu11`` or an equivalent
flag will not result in an error or warning, but will instead add the
``-std=gnu99`` or ``-std=gnu90`` flag if supported.  This "decay" behavior may
be controlled with the :prop_tgt:`C_STANDARD_REQUIRED` target property.

See the :manual:`cmake-compile-features(7)` manual for information on
compile features.

This property is initialized by the value of
the :variable:`CMAKE_C_STANDARD` variable if it is set when a target
is created.
