Help/prop_tgt/CXX_STANDARD.rst, before:

CXX_STANDARD
------------

The C++ standard whose features are requested to build this target.

This property specifies the C++ standard whose features are requested
to build this target.  For some compilers, this results in adding a
flag such as ``-std=gnu++11`` to the compile line.

Supported values are ``98``, ``11`` and ``14``.

If the value requested does not result in a compile flag being added for
the compiler in use, a previous standard flag will be added instead.  This
means that using:

.. code-block:: cmake

  set_property(TARGET tgt PROPERTY CXX_STANDARD 11)

with a compiler which does not support ``-std=gnu++11`` or an equivalent
flag will not result in an error or warning, but will instead add the
``-std=gnu++98`` flag if supported.  This "decay" behavior may be controlled
with the :prop_tgt:`CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED` target property.

See the :manual:`cmake-compile-features(7)` manual for information on
compile features.

This property is initialized by the value of
the :variable:`CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD` variable if it is set when a target
is created.

Commit message:

Help: Document <LANG>_STANDARD having no effect for MSVC

Help/prop_tgt/CXX_STANDARD.rst, after:

CXX_STANDARD
------------

The C++ standard whose features are requested to build this target.

This property specifies the C++ standard whose features are requested
to build this target.  For some compilers, this results in adding a
flag such as ``-std=gnu++11`` to the compile line.  For compilers that
have no notion of a standard level, such as MSVC, this has no effect.

Supported values are ``98``, ``11`` and ``14``.

If the value requested does not result in a compile flag being added for
the compiler in use, a previous standard flag will be added instead.  This
means that using:

.. code-block:: cmake

  set_property(TARGET tgt PROPERTY CXX_STANDARD 11)

with a compiler which does not support ``-std=gnu++11`` or an equivalent
flag will not result in an error or warning, but will instead add the
``-std=gnu++98`` flag if supported.  This "decay" behavior may be controlled
with the :prop_tgt:`CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED` target property.

See the :manual:`cmake-compile-features(7)` manual for information on
compile features.

This property is initialized by the value of
the :variable:`CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD` variable if it is set when a target
is created.
