Help/command/if.rst, before:

if
--

Conditionally execute a group of commands.

.. code-block:: cmake

 if(expression)
   # then section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 elseif(expression2)
   # elseif section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 else(expression)
   # else section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 endif(expression)

Evaluates the given expression.  If the result is true, the commands
in the THEN section are invoked.  Otherwise, the commands in the else
section are invoked.  The elseif and else sections are optional.  You
may have multiple elseif clauses.  Note that the expression in the
else and endif clause is optional.  Long expressions can be used and
there is a traditional order of precedence.  Parenthetical expressions
are evaluated first followed by unary tests such as ``EXISTS``,
``COMMAND``, and ``DEFINED``.  Then any binary tests such as
``EQUAL``, ``LESS``, ``GREATER``, ``STRLESS``, ``STRGREATER``,
``STREQUAL``, and ``MATCHES`` will be evaluated.  Then boolean ``NOT``
operators and finally boolean ``AND`` and then ``OR`` operators will
be evaluated.

Possible expressions are:

``if(<constant>)``
 True if the constant is ``1``, ``ON``, ``YES``, ``TRUE``, ``Y``,
 or a non-zero number.  False if the constant is ``0``, ``OFF``,
 ``NO``, ``FALSE``, ``N``, ``IGNORE``, ``NOTFOUND``, the empty string,
 or ends in the suffix ``-NOTFOUND``.  Named boolean constants are
 case-insensitive.  If the argument is not one of these constants, it
 is treated as a variable.

``if(<variable>)``
 True if the variable is defined to a value that is not a false
 constant.  False otherwise.  (Note macro arguments are not variables.)

``if(NOT <expression>)``
 True if the expression is not true.

``if(<expr1> AND <expr2>)``
 True if both expressions would be considered true individually.

``if(<expr1> OR <expr2>)``
 True if either expression would be considered true individually.

``if(COMMAND command-name)``
 True if the given name is a command, macro or function that can be
 invoked.

``if(POLICY policy-id)``
 True if the given name is an existing policy (of the form ``CMP<NNNN>``).

``if(TARGET target-name)``
 True if the given name is an existing logical target name such as those
 created by the :command:`add_executable`, :command:`add_library`, or
 :command:`add_custom_target` commands.

``if(EXISTS path-to-file-or-directory)``
 True if the named file or directory exists.  Behavior is well-defined
 only for full paths.

``if(file1 IS_NEWER_THAN file2)``
 True if file1 is newer than file2 or if one of the two files doesn't
 exist.  Behavior is well-defined only for full paths.  If the file
 time stamps are exactly the same, an ``IS_NEWER_THAN`` comparison returns
 true, so that any dependent build operations will occur in the event
 of a tie.  This includes the case of passing the same file name for
 both file1 and file2.

``if(IS_DIRECTORY path-to-directory)``
 True if the given name is a directory.  Behavior is well-defined only
 for full paths.

``if(IS_SYMLINK file-name)``
 True if the given name is a symbolic link.  Behavior is well-defined
 only for full paths.

``if(IS_ABSOLUTE path)``
 True if the given path is an absolute path.

``if(<variable|string> MATCHES regex)``
 True if the given string or variable's value matches the given regular
 expression.

``if(<variable|string> LESS <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and less
 than that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> GREATER <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and greater
 than that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> EQUAL <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and equal
 to that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STRLESS <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically less
 than the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STRGREATER <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically greater
 than the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STREQUAL <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically equal
 to the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_LESS <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_EQUAL <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_GREATER <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(DEFINED <variable>)``
 True if the given variable is defined.  It does not matter if the
 variable is true or false just if it has been set.  (Note macro
 arguments are not variables.)

``if((expression) AND (expression OR (expression)))``
 The expressions inside the parenthesis are evaluated first and then
 the remaining expression is evaluated as in the previous examples.
 Where there are nested parenthesis the innermost are evaluated as part
 of evaluating the expression that contains them.

The if command was written very early in CMake's history, predating
the ``${}`` variable evaluation syntax, and for convenience evaluates
variables named by its arguments as shown in the above signatures.
Note that normal variable evaluation with ``${}`` applies before the if
command even receives the arguments.  Therefore code like::

 set(var1 OFF)
 set(var2 "var1")
 if(${var2})

appears to the if command as::

 if(var1)

and is evaluated according to the ``if(<variable>)`` case documented
above.  The result is ``OFF`` which is false.  However, if we remove the
``${}`` from the example then the command sees::

 if(var2)

which is true because ``var2`` is defined to "var1" which is not a false
constant.

Automatic evaluation applies in the other cases whenever the
above-documented signature accepts ``<variable|string>``:

* The left hand argument to ``MATCHES`` is first checked to see if it is
  a defined variable, if so the variable's value is used, otherwise the
  original value is used.

* If the left hand argument to ``MATCHES`` is missing it returns false
  without error

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``LESS``, ``GREATER``, and
  ``EQUAL`` are independently tested to see if they are defined
  variables, if so their defined values are used otherwise the original
  value is used.

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``STRLESS``, ``STREQUAL``, and
  ``STRGREATER`` are independently tested to see if they are defined
  variables, if so their defined values are used otherwise the original
  value is used.

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``VERSION_LESS``,
  ``VERSION_EQUAL``, and ``VERSION_GREATER`` are independently tested
  to see if they are defined variables, if so their defined values are
  used otherwise the original value is used.

* The right hand argument to ``NOT`` is tested to see if it is a boolean
  constant, if so the value is used, otherwise it is assumed to be a
  variable and it is dereferenced.

* The left and right hand arguments to ``AND`` and ``OR`` are independently
  tested to see if they are boolean constants, if so they are used as
  such, otherwise they are assumed to be variables and are dereferenced.

To prevent ambiguity, potential variable or keyword names can be
specified in a :ref:`Quoted Argument` or a :ref:`Bracket Argument`.
A quoted or bracketed variable or keyword will be interpreted as a
string and not dereferenced or interpreted.
See policy :policy:`CMP0054`.

Commit message:

CMake: if command understands if(TEST TestName)
if(TEST TestNameThatExists) will return true if a test with the name
TestNameThatExists has been added with add_test.

The syntax is similar to if(TARGET TargetName).

Help/command/if.rst, after:

if
--

Conditionally execute a group of commands.

.. code-block:: cmake

 if(expression)
   # then section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 elseif(expression2)
   # elseif section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 else(expression)
   # else section.
   COMMAND1(ARGS ...)
   COMMAND2(ARGS ...)
   ...
 endif(expression)

Evaluates the given expression.  If the result is true, the commands
in the THEN section are invoked.  Otherwise, the commands in the else
section are invoked.  The elseif and else sections are optional.  You
may have multiple elseif clauses.  Note that the expression in the
else and endif clause is optional.  Long expressions can be used and
there is a traditional order of precedence.  Parenthetical expressions
are evaluated first followed by unary tests such as ``EXISTS``,
``COMMAND``, and ``DEFINED``.  Then any binary tests such as
``EQUAL``, ``LESS``, ``GREATER``, ``STRLESS``, ``STRGREATER``,
``STREQUAL``, and ``MATCHES`` will be evaluated.  Then boolean ``NOT``
operators and finally boolean ``AND`` and then ``OR`` operators will
be evaluated.

Possible expressions are:

``if(<constant>)``
 True if the constant is ``1``, ``ON``, ``YES``, ``TRUE``, ``Y``,
 or a non-zero number.  False if the constant is ``0``, ``OFF``,
 ``NO``, ``FALSE``, ``N``, ``IGNORE``, ``NOTFOUND``, the empty string,
 or ends in the suffix ``-NOTFOUND``.  Named boolean constants are
 case-insensitive.  If the argument is not one of these constants, it
 is treated as a variable.

``if(<variable>)``
 True if the variable is defined to a value that is not a false
 constant.  False otherwise.  (Note macro arguments are not variables.)

``if(NOT <expression>)``
 True if the expression is not true.

``if(<expr1> AND <expr2>)``
 True if both expressions would be considered true individually.

``if(<expr1> OR <expr2>)``
 True if either expression would be considered true individually.

``if(COMMAND command-name)``
 True if the given name is a command, macro or function that can be
 invoked.

``if(POLICY policy-id)``
 True if the given name is an existing policy (of the form ``CMP<NNNN>``).

``if(TARGET target-name)``
 True if the given name is an existing logical target name such as those
 created by the :command:`add_executable`, :command:`add_library`, or
 :command:`add_custom_target` commands.

``if(TEST test)``
 True if the given name is an existing test name created by the
 :command:`add_test` command.

``if(EXISTS path-to-file-or-directory)``
 True if the named file or directory exists.  Behavior is well-defined
 only for full paths.

``if(file1 IS_NEWER_THAN file2)``
 True if file1 is newer than file2 or if one of the two files doesn't
 exist.  Behavior is well-defined only for full paths.  If the file
 time stamps are exactly the same, an ``IS_NEWER_THAN`` comparison returns
 true, so that any dependent build operations will occur in the event
 of a tie.  This includes the case of passing the same file name for
 both file1 and file2.

``if(IS_DIRECTORY path-to-directory)``
 True if the given name is a directory.  Behavior is well-defined only
 for full paths.

``if(IS_SYMLINK file-name)``
 True if the given name is a symbolic link.  Behavior is well-defined
 only for full paths.

``if(IS_ABSOLUTE path)``
 True if the given path is an absolute path.

``if(<variable|string> MATCHES regex)``
 True if the given string or variable's value matches the given regular
 expression.

``if(<variable|string> LESS <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and less
 than that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> GREATER <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and greater
 than that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> EQUAL <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is a valid number and equal
 to that on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STRLESS <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically less
 than the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STRGREATER <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically greater
 than the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> STREQUAL <variable|string>)``
 True if the given string or variable's value is lexicographically equal
 to the string or variable on the right.

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_LESS <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_EQUAL <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(<variable|string> VERSION_GREATER <variable|string>)``
 Component-wise integer version number comparison (version format is
 ``major[.minor[.patch[.tweak]]]``).

``if(DEFINED <variable>)``
 True if the given variable is defined.  It does not matter if the
 variable is true or false just if it has been set.  (Note macro
 arguments are not variables.)

``if((expression) AND (expression OR (expression)))``
 The expressions inside the parenthesis are evaluated first and then
 the remaining expression is evaluated as in the previous examples.
 Where there are nested parenthesis the innermost are evaluated as part
 of evaluating the expression that contains them.

The if command was written very early in CMake's history, predating
the ``${}`` variable evaluation syntax, and for convenience evaluates
variables named by its arguments as shown in the above signatures.
Note that normal variable evaluation with ``${}`` applies before the if
command even receives the arguments.  Therefore code like::

 set(var1 OFF)
 set(var2 "var1")
 if(${var2})

appears to the if command as::

 if(var1)

and is evaluated according to the ``if(<variable>)`` case documented
above.  The result is ``OFF`` which is false.  However, if we remove the
``${}`` from the example then the command sees::

 if(var2)

which is true because ``var2`` is defined to "var1" which is not a false
constant.

Automatic evaluation applies in the other cases whenever the
above-documented signature accepts ``<variable|string>``:

* The left hand argument to ``MATCHES`` is first checked to see if it is
  a defined variable, if so the variable's value is used, otherwise the
  original value is used.

* If the left hand argument to ``MATCHES`` is missing it returns false
  without error

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``LESS``, ``GREATER``, and
  ``EQUAL`` are independently tested to see if they are defined
  variables, if so their defined values are used otherwise the original
  value is used.

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``STRLESS``, ``STREQUAL``, and
  ``STRGREATER`` are independently tested to see if they are defined
  variables, if so their defined values are used otherwise the original
  value is used.

* Both left and right hand arguments to ``VERSION_LESS``,
  ``VERSION_EQUAL``, and ``VERSION_GREATER`` are independently tested
  to see if they are defined variables, if so their defined values are
  used otherwise the original value is used.

* The right hand argument to ``NOT`` is tested to see if it is a boolean
  constant, if so the value is used, otherwise it is assumed to be a
  variable and it is dereferenced.

* The left and right hand arguments to ``AND`` and ``OR`` are independently
  tested to see if they are boolean constants, if so they are used as
  such, otherwise they are assumed to be variables and are dereferenced.

To prevent ambiguity, potential variable or keyword names can be
specified in a :ref:`Quoted Argument` or a :ref:`Bracket Argument`.
A quoted or bracketed variable or keyword will be interpreted as a
string and not dereferenced or interpreted.
See policy :policy:`CMP0054`.
