Help/command/target_sources.rst, before:

target_sources
--------------

Add sources to a target.

::

  target_sources(<target>
    <INTERFACE|PUBLIC|PRIVATE> [items1...]
    [<INTERFACE|PUBLIC|PRIVATE> [items2...] ...])

Specify sources to use when compiling a given target.  The
named ``<target>`` must have been created by a command such as
:command:`add_executable` or :command:`add_library` and must not be an
:ref:`IMPORTED Target <Imported Targets>`.

The ``INTERFACE``, ``PUBLIC`` and ``PRIVATE`` keywords are required to
specify the scope of the following arguments.  ``PRIVATE`` and ``PUBLIC``
items will populate the :prop_tgt:`SOURCES` property of
``<target>``.  ``PUBLIC`` and ``INTERFACE`` items will populate the
:prop_tgt:`INTERFACE_SOURCES` property of ``<target>``.  The
following arguments specify sources.  Repeated calls for the same
``<target>`` append items in the order called.

Arguments to ``target_sources`` may use "generator expressions"
with the syntax ``$<...>``. See the :manual:`cmake-generator-expressions(7)`
manual for available expressions.  See the :manual:`cmake-buildsystem(7)`
manual for more on defining buildsystem properties.

Commit message:

Help: Document the export limitation of INTERFACE_SOURCES.

Help/command/target_sources.rst, after:

target_sources
--------------

Add sources to a target.

::

  target_sources(<target>
    <INTERFACE|PUBLIC|PRIVATE> [items1...]
    [<INTERFACE|PUBLIC|PRIVATE> [items2...] ...])

Specify sources to use when compiling a given target.  The
named ``<target>`` must have been created by a command such as
:command:`add_executable` or :command:`add_library` and must not be an
:ref:`IMPORTED Target <Imported Targets>`.

The ``INTERFACE``, ``PUBLIC`` and ``PRIVATE`` keywords are required to
specify the scope of the following arguments.  ``PRIVATE`` and ``PUBLIC``
items will populate the :prop_tgt:`SOURCES` property of
``<target>``.  ``PUBLIC`` and ``INTERFACE`` items will populate the
:prop_tgt:`INTERFACE_SOURCES` property of ``<target>``.  The
following arguments specify sources.  Repeated calls for the same
``<target>`` append items in the order called.

Targets with :prop_tgt:`INTERFACE_SOURCES` may not be exported with the
:command:`export` or :command:`install(EXPORT)` commands. This limitation may be
lifted in a future version of CMake.

Arguments to ``target_sources`` may use "generator expressions"
with the syntax ``$<...>``. See the :manual:`cmake-generator-expressions(7)`
manual for available expressions.  See the :manual:`cmake-buildsystem(7)`
manual for more on defining buildsystem properties.
